BFS vs DFS

singleton pattern

abstract class and its uses


Given Channel, Program and TRP ratings, How do you consume those at server side,
and what do you do to retrieve specific data like 1Get all programs in given channel where TRP is > 10′.


Time complexity of Binary Tree: Searching, Inserting


Questions on Sorting and Searching algorithms complexity


process scheduling algorithms and then he asked me how will you allocate memory to a newly formed file

 topological sorting , LRU cache implementation , Boxing stack problem

 Quick sort

 paging and segmentation concepts

 what is virtual memory?y is it so called?size of virtual memory.

 applications of graph.

 Applications of heap. Insertion in a heap ( insertion of strings in a heap, 
 priority is decided lexicographically). Time complexity of insertion.

 Scheduling Algorithms, Threads and Time Complexity. Operating Systems.

  small questions related to quick sort, heaps, hashing, time complexity for various algorithms.

What are different phases in Compiler? 4 phases of Compiler: Lexical Analyzer, Syntax Analyzer, Semantic Analyzer, 

What is Threading?
Why thread better then process?
What is thrashing?

OS Page fault, Waiting time (RR Scheduling), Paging, Semaphores, etc.
Process and Threads, Process Scheduling, Mutex and Semaphores and Memory Management.
a) Difference between process and thread.
b) Advantages and disadvantages of using threads.
c) Difference b/w Scheduler and Dispatcher.
d) Name all the process scheduling algos and explain the Round Robin Process Scheduling.
e) At max how many threads can be active at a time in a machine?
f) What is race condition and how do we avoid it?
g) Difference between Semaphores and Mutex?
h) What is secondary memory and why do we use it?
i) What is thrashing?
a) Explain OSI reference model and write all the layers present in this model along with the protocols used at each layer.
b) Difference between TCP and UDP.


Caches.
tell different page replacement policies.
Priority Queues, its internal implementation and complexities.

Which of the following sorting algorithms have worst case nlogn complexity?
Ans:merge sort,heap sort.

Number of child process created when fork() system call is called n times?

The average time taken for searching an element in an array using linear search assuming that the searched 
element is always present in the array? Ans: (n+1)/2

You will be given array ,you have to find out which of them represents a max/min heap?


 You are two traversals of a binary tree,,you have to find out the asked traversal? For ex: Inorder=4, 8, 10, 12, 14, 20, 22. 
 Level order=20, 8, 22, 4, 12, 10, 14 Find preoreder? Ans:20,8,4,12,10,14,22

 You are given a binary search tree and a key time taken for the Searching given key? 
 Ans:O(log(n)) worst case for balanced BST O(n) worst case for Normal BST 
 (this case occurs for left/right skewed trees).


 You are given a string let say “saideep” ,s-1,a-1,i-1,e-2,d-1,p-1 is the frequency of each character.
 VALUE of the string is defined as sum of squares of count of each distinct character.
 value of above string is 1+1+1+1+4=8; 
 Your task is to minimize the strings VALUE of the string after removal of ‘k’ characters.
Ans: Its a straight forward question where you take a 256 array to store frequency of each character ,
for k times you find a maximum frequency character and decrements its frequency by 1. 
After k iterations print the VALUE function you get by remaining characters.


 Difference between trigger and stored procedure?
 Difference between thread and process?
 Define deadlock and race condition?
 How deadlock is detected?
What is resource allocation graph and how its related to deadlock,what are the nodes in that graph?
 He asked me what all the data structures i know and give their real time examples?
 Indexing in DBMS
 Types of indexes
 How indexing is done in DB(b-tree and b+trees)
 Views ,types of views its advantages

	
 You will be given a floor say(m*n) dimensions and sub rectangles that can fit inside the big rectangle..you have to print the floor plan for given dimensions of small sub rectangles.
He explained me that it requires construction of SLICING TREE and then printing floor plan. He asked which all the data structures you will use to construct it and asked me think of it.

Ans: I gave him an stack/queue based approach .I told him that i’ll sort the sub rectangles by lengths/breadths and push them in stack in d=increasing order. .he was very much satisfied with my algorithm and asked me to code it


What all data structures you know.Give the real life examples of when can we use them

What happens when you type www.amazon.com in your Browser .

Discussion on data structure used for dictionary, Hash table vs Trie, collision handling in hash tables.

What is the most funniest and craziest data structure you have ever used.

I said Segment Trees. He asked me to explain it. Why to use it, explain it through some example, prove its complexity.


questions on Operating Systems and Computer Networking.
Operating Systems- Difference between multi -tasking, multi-processing and multiprogramming, Virtual Memory, why to use Virtual memory, issues related to virtual memory , paging, segmentation , multithreading, difference between process and thread.
Computer Networking- What happens when you type www.amazon.com in Web Browser, how server handle requests, how routing works, difference between HTTP and HTTPS, how TCP works.


DBMS related query questions 

question on Paging, Collision Resolving techniques, Page replacement algorithms.


 simple question involving unordered map. Then asked me to first implement the map and then use it.

 Several questions on OS (semaphores, mutex, scheduling)